ethereum powers nfts
now that we know
how the blockchain fits into all of this
now that we know what nfds are why we
need them how they work
now we need to look at the real world
implementations of this right and that's
where we're looking at ethereum because
ethereum
is where the majority of nfts live today
now there are other solutions out there
for nfts
but we're going to focus on the mainstay
here now inevitably you'll have the
question maybe if you're not familiar
what is ethereum
and we could make an entire course on
ethereum itself right the token that
is counter to bitcoin right
now the way that i put it is if bitcoin
is the gold standard
and by gold standard i mean like gold
right like the equivalent of gold in the
real world of the cryptocurrency market
ethereum is more like
the oil or the coal we need to burn it
in order to do stuff
so what does that mean well ethereum
powers a lot of different things and is
a lot of different things it's instantly
send and receive money it's financial
freedom you can build decentralized apps
on it you can do peer-to-peer stuff
there's the ability to build
marketplaces on top of it ethereum is
able to power
what people want as a standard as long
as you're willing to burn ethereum to
accomplish something right so as long as
you're willing to burn the token as a
gas
they have a whole network
and development guide that can teach you
how to do a ton of different stuff
but the part we need to zoom in on the
part we need to zoom in on about
ethereum so that we can better
understand how nfts are implemented
is that ethereum is a
programmable blockchain
a programmable blockchain what is that
what does that mean
well put in simple terms it means that
ethereum has a concept right because it
is a blockchain it's a technology that's
running somewhere in a decentralized way
ethereum
allows you to take code that you wrote
right code
and it allows you to deploy it on the
ethereum network on the blockchain and
execute it now
that doesn't mean you can write any code
possible in the whole wide world or
deploy like
really really complex apps no no they
have standards
with which you can write and deploy code
on ethereum right they control
what type of code is allowed to be
executed on the ethereum network because
otherwise people could exploit
vulnerabilities put security loopholes
right they could deploy like bugs up
there they really control what type of
code can be executed on the ethereum
network and there's contracts to which
you know you must adhere
to deploy your app to the ethereum
network but in basic terms
you can take code and you can put it on
ethereum
and that code will execute now
everything on ethereum is an address is
a wallet of sorts and you can interact
with that wallet
okay so ethereum is a coin
ethereum needs to be burned in order to
do transactions
you're allowed to deploy code onto
ethereum
to do things
okay
understood
so
what does that mean
for nfts mo we understand that you can
take code you can deploy it
on
ethereum well for nfts this basically
means that ethereum has
a way for you to define
encode
the specifics of
ownership right the things that we
talked about and because of that we use
ethereum to power nfts and nf
and ethereum has built nft standards
into
the blockchain technology that they've
built to ensure that there's one
interface for defining what an nft looks
like
and for that we need smart contracts